---
layout: post
published: true
title: 2From Saving the World to Learning Altair Visualizations

---
#From Saving the World to Learning Altair Visualizations

	Just like any student who aspires to learn well and create spectacular projects, I had great plans and aspirations for my first ever data science project. At the time of conception one of the hottest topics worldwide is the epidemic of covid19.  The rapid and abrupt increase in cases has not only affected China, South Korea and neighboring countries. It has also reached some countries in Europe, the Middle East and some states in the US such as California and Washington.

	Of course I ambitiously wanted to work with data on this topic but at the same time was quite overwhelmed with the enormousness of it all. It was going to be an eye popper and will help solve and contain the virus! I was going to see creative and unique correlations that no other well- experienced scientists nor analysts had seen nor realized. Yes just like in the movies!
	
	And then I realized that I only intermittent periods of time within a two-week duration to work on this. And unlike in the movies where the good guys can successfully and excitingly win against all odds in a nail-biting 24-hour period,I may not have enough time nor chops to save the world.

	So as anti-climatic it sounds, I happily decided on a more established dataset of Zika virus that plagued a big part of the world.  For the purposes of this article, I am concentrating on cases between 2016 and 2017.

	It is interesting how plans change and directions swerved as I realized I actually do not have the luxury of time to learn solid data on zika virus and process it to create a story.  I realized that what I really want to do is to learn how to wrangle data and create different visualizations that relate stories behind the numbers. 

	So instead of researching Zika virus, I started looking into different ways to visualize my data using the Python library Altair.

	It is not about giving up on your aspirations, it is about scaling your expectations in a timely manner that will hopefully get you to your original plan. I have enjoyed this short journey, and I have tremendously learned new things and ways to learn.

